## Dell G16 7360 Optimization Phase 2

In a previous post I described my purchase and initial optimization of the Dell G16 7360 (2023) laptop in terms of cooling and clock speed.

A key thing to note, the main heat culprit is the Intel Raptor Lake CPU, while the Nvidia RTX 4070 GPU appears to be reasonably cooled on even 
GPU intense games, though this remains to be tested with more demanding ones (e.g. RDR2).

I've been using Assassins Creed Odessy to test, mainly because it's the game I was actively playing at the time of the G16 purchase.
However, as it turns out, with the 4070, the game becomes CPU bound, largely based on clock speed.  

I've tested various speeds of the performance (P) cores with the game's benchmarking and 3.5Ghz is the bare miniumum to reach acceptable frame rates (average >60 FPS)
with all graphics turned to max and anti-aliasing (AA) set to "Adaptive" @ 60 FPS.  However, even at 3.5Ghz, the G16 starts to become uncomfortably warm
during an extended gaming session, so I looked for an additional cooling solution.

In this post I'll describe briefly what should hopefully be the final step in the process, the purchase of a IETS GT500 active cooling pad.

I had seen this recommended on reddit (of course) and read the reviews on Amazon, which were almost entirely positive, sans the complaints over the noise the
5000 RPM fan makes.

My own experience more or less confirms those claims.  Even after a fairly intense session of Assassins Creed Odessy, I found the bottom to be ice cold and the laptop as a whole to be only warm to the touch.
The processors here, being the most important were generally < 90 degrees celcius and more like low 80's to high 70's on average, so limited thermal throttling.
The GPU stayed under 80.

This is with the CPU's clock uncapped to allow it to reach maximum (5.4Ghz) speeds but still only using the 8 P cores with the other 16 E cores turned "off" in the BIOS.
Also, I had the AWCC profile set to custom with 100% CPU and GPU fans.

While CPU thermal throttling still ocurrs occassionaly according to HWiNFO64, it appears these are rare, spikes in the session, with averages well below the thermal throttling threshold.

